CLOUD-800 Added Monitoring of Kubernetes doc (#111)
percona/k8spg-docs: docs/monitor-kubernetes.md

# Monitor Kubernetes 

Monitoring the state of the database is crucial to timely identify and react to performance issues. [Percona Monitoring and Management (PMM) solution enables you to do just that](monitoring.md).

However, the database state also depends on the state of the Kubernetes cluster itself. Hence it’s important to have metrics that can depict the state of the Kubernetes cluster.

This document describes how to set up monitoring of the Kubernetes cluster health. This setup has been tested with the [PMM server](https://docs.percona.com/percona-monitoring-and-management/details/architecture.html#pmm-server) as the centralized data storage and the Victoria Metrics Operator as the metrics collector. These steps may also apply if you use another Prometheus-compatible storage.

## Considerations

1. In this setup we use [Victoria Metrics kubernetes monitoring stack](https://github.com/VictoriaMetrics/helm-charts/tree/master/charts/victoria-metrics-k8s-stack) Helm chart. When customizing the chart's values, consider the following:

>     * Since we use the PMM server for monitoring, there is no need to store the data in Victoria Metrics Operator. Therefore, set the `vmsingle.enabled` and `vmcluster.enabled` parameters in the Victoria Metrics Helm chart to `false`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Since we use the PMM server for monitoring, there is no need to store the data in Victoria Metrics Operator. Therefore, we will install Victoria Metrics Helm chart with  `vmsingle.enabled` and `vmcluster.enabled` parameters set  to `false`.
```

1. Add the dependency repositories of [victoria-metrics-k8s-stack](https://github.com/VictoriaMetrics/helm-charts/blob/master/charts/victoria-metrics-k8s-stack) chart. 

    ```{.bash data-prompt="$" }
    $ helm repo add grafana https://grafana.github.io/helm-charts
    $ helm repo add prometheus-community https://prometheus-community.github.io/helm-charts
    ```

2. Add the Victoria Metrics Operator repository.

    ```{.bash data-prompt="$" }
    $ helm repo add vm https://victoriametrics.github.io/helm-charts/
    $ helm repo update
    ```

3. Update the repositories.

    ```{.bash data-prompt="$" }
    $ helm repo update
    ```

4. Modify the default configuration of the `victoria-metrics-k8s-stack` chart. Edit the [`values.yaml`](https://github.com/Percona-Lab/k8s-monitoring/blob/main/vm-operator-k8s-stack/values.yaml) file and specify the following:

    * the IP address / hostname of the PMM server in the `externalVM.write.url` option
    * the unique name or an ID of the Kubernetes cluster in the `vmagent.spec.externalLabels.k8s_cluster_id` option. Ensure to set different values if you are sending metrics from multiple Kubernetes clusters to the same PMM Server.

> 

Reviewer: *  optionally check the rest of the file and make additional changes, for example, the `prometheus-node-exporter.enabled` to `true` to if you plan to gather metrics for Nodes with the Prometheus node exporter

# Monitor Kubernetes 

Monitoring the state of the database is crucial to timely identify and react to performance issues. [Percona Monitoring and Management (PMM) solution enables you to do just that](monitoring.md).

However, the database state also depends on the state of the Kubernetes cluster itself. Hence it’s important to have metrics that can depict the state of the Kubernetes cluster.

> This document describes how to set up monitoring of the Kubernetes cluster health. This setup has been tested with the [PMM server](https://docs.percona.com/percona-monitoring-and-management/details/architecture.html#pmm-server) as the centralized data storage and the Victoria Metrics Operator as the statistics collector, though the steps should also apply to other monitoring applications. 

Author: AFAIU this is supposed to be the universal instruction where not only PMM server can serve as the data storage. Is it not the case?

> This document describes how to set up monitoring of the Kubernetes cluster health. This setup has been tested with the [PMM server](https://docs.percona.com/percona-monitoring-and-management/details/architecture.html#pmm-server) as the centralized data storage and the Victoria Metrics Operator as the statistics collector, though the steps should also apply to other monitoring applications. 

Reviewer 2: There are 2 parts, PMM is using victoria metrics for data storage, which can be replaced with other prometheus compatible storage. 
However the same instructions mentioned above cannot be used on other tools like datadog,instana etc. 
We might have to dig in more on how to make it possible, but tats mostly phase-2 after getting user feedback.

> This document describes how to set up monitoring of the Kubernetes cluster health. This setup has been tested with the [PMM server](https://docs.percona.com/percona-monitoring-and-management/details/architecture.html#pmm-server) as the centralized data storage and the Victoria Metrics Operator as the statistics collector, though the steps should also apply to other monitoring applications. 

Author: So we can say that one may use another Prometheus compatible storage yet should stick to VM as the metrics collector, right?

## Considerations

1. In this setup we use [Victoria Metrics kubernetes monitoring stack](https://github.com/VictoriaMetrics/helm-charts/tree/master/charts/victoria-metrics-k8s-stack) Helm chart. When customizing the chart's values, consider the following:

    * Since we use the PMM server for monitoring, there is no need to store the data in Victoria Metrics Operator. Therefore, set the `vmsngle.enabled` and `vmcuster.enabled` parameters in the Victoria Metrics Helm chart to `false`.
    * The Prometheus node exporter is not installed by default since it requires privileged containers with the access to the host file system. If you need the metrics for Nodes, enable the Prometheus node exporter by setting the `prometheus-node-exporter.enabled` flag in the Victoria Metrics Helm chart to `true`.

>     * [Check all the role-based access control rules provided by the charts](https://helm.sh/docs/topics/rbac/) and modify them based on your requirements. 

Reviewer 2: We can convey to check RBAC of the victoria metrics k8s stack chart and the dependencies chart like this https://github.com/VictoriaMetrics/helm-charts/blob/ccbb7ae8fdbd952eca3dc2c95e305b13f464d028/charts/victoria-metrics-k8s-stack/Chart.yaml#L34

One of the example is going through the cluster rol of victoria metrics operator, but I believe we should be good in specifying generalized statement like above.
https://github.com/VictoriaMetrics/helm-charts/blob/master/charts/victoria-metrics-operator/templates/cluster_role.yaml

Author: Could you please explain here? Do you mean we should replace the link with the one you provided?

> 2. This setup is used for a 1:1 mapping from Kubernetes cluster to the PMM server. If you wish to monitor more than one Kubernetes cluster in a single PMM server, you need to configure the dashboard to filter a specific Kubernetes cluster. You also need to properly [relabel the metrics](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/vmagent.html#relabeling) from the backend.

Reviewer 2: We have addressed this, Right now we can capture metrics from multiple k8s metrics.

Author: But we also mention about dashboard setup as a condition. How to configure it? Or will it have the filter per cluster name/ID?

Author: Updated the wording

## Pre-requisites

To set up monitoring of Kubernetes, you need the following:

1. PMM Server up and running. You can run PMM Server as a Docker image, a virtual appliance, or on an AWS instance. Please refer to the [official PMM documentation](https://docs.percona.com/percona-monitoring-and-management/setting-up/server/index.html) for the installation instructions.

> 2. [Helm v3](https://docs.helm.sh/using_helm/#installing-helm).

Reviewer 2: Helmv3 and kubectl ?

Author: Updated

To access the PMM Server resources and perform actions on the server, configure authentication.

1. Get the PMM API key. The key must have the role "Admin".

    === "From PMM UI" 

        [Generate the PMM API key](https://docs.percona.com/percona-monitoring-and-management/details/api.html#api-keys-and-authentication){.md-button} 

    === "From command line"

        You can query your PMM Server installation for the API
        Key using `curl` and `jq` utilities. Replace `<login>:<password>@<server_host>` placeholders with your real PMM Server login, password, and hostname in the following command:

        ``` {.bash data-prompt="$" }
        $ API_KEY=$(curl --insecure -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{"name":"operator", "role": "Admin"}' "https://<login>:<password>@<server_host>/graph/api/auth/keys" | jq .key)
        ```

    !!! note

        The API key is not rotated. 

2. Encode the API key with base64.

    === "in Linux" 

        ````{.bash data-prompt="$" }
        $ echo -n <API-key> | base64 --wrap=0
        ````

    === "in macOS"   
        ```{.bash data-prompt="$" }
        $ echo -n <API-key> | base64 
        ```

> 3. Create the YAML file for the [Kubernetes Secrets](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/) and specify the API key value within. Let's name this file `pmm-api-vmoperator.yaml`.

Reviewer 2: This instruction should come after switching the context of namespace(point 4 as of now).
Other option is `kubectl create secret generic pmm-token-vmoperator --from-literal=api_key='<api-key>'

> 3. Create the YAML file for the [Kubernetes Secrets](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/) and specify the API key value within. In this example the Secrets file is named `pmm-api-vmoperator.yaml`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Create the YAML file for the [Kubernetes Secrets](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/) and specify the API key value within. For example, let's name this file `pmm-api-vmoperator.yaml`:
```

    ```yaml title="pmm-api-vmoperator.yaml"
    apiVersion: v1
    data:
      api_key: <base-64-encoded-API-key>
    kind: Secret
    metadata:
      name: pmm-token-vmoperator
      #namespace: default
    type: Opaque
    ```

> 4. Create the Namespace where you want to set up monitoring. The following command creates the Namespace `monitoring-system`. You can use another name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Create the Namespace where you want to set up monitoring. The following command creates the Namespace `monitoring-system`. You can choose a different name. In later steps, you will use this name instead of the `<namespace>` placeholder.
```

> 4. Create the Namespace where you want to set up monitoring. The following command creates the Namespace `monitoring-system`. You can specify a different name. In the latter steps, specify this name instead of the `<namespace>` placeholder.

Reviewer 2: Mention this is an optional step. If namespace not specified, default namespace from the kubeconfig context will be used.

Author: Updated

    
    ```{.bash data-prompt="$" }
    $ kubectl create namespace monitoring-system
    ```

> 5. Create the Secrets object using the secrets file. Replace the `<filename>` placeholder with your value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Create the Secrets object using the YAML file we created on step 3.
```

    ```{.bash data-prompt="$" }

>     $ kubectl apply -f <filename> -n <namespace>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    $ kubectl apply -f pmm-api-vmoperator.yaml -n <namespace>
```

    ```

6. Check that the secret is created. The following command checks the secret for the resource named `pmm-token-vmoperator` (as defined in the `metadata.name` option in the secrets file). If you defined another resource name, specify your value.  

   ```{.bash data-prompt="$" }
   $ kubectl get secret pmm-token-vmoperator -n <namespace>
   ```

### Create a ConfigMap to mount for kube-state-metrics 

> The `kube-state-metrics` (KSM) is a simple service that listens to the Kubernetes API server and generates metrics about the state of various objects - Pods, Deployments, Services and Custom Resources. 

Reviewer 2: Add hyperlink https://github.com/kubernetes/kube-state-metrics

Author: Done

> The `kube-state-metrics` (KSM) is a simple service that listens to the Kubernetes API server and generates metrics about the state of various objects - Pods, Deployments, Services and Custom Resources. 

Reviewer 2: As per the doc https://github.com/kubernetes/kube-state-metrics/blob/main/docs/cli-arguments.md , capturing custom resource metrics is still experimental, we need to mention this somewhere, maybe mention this whole document as Beta or something . @spron-in May share more thoughts.
```
--custom-resource-state-config string        Inline Custom Resource State Metrics config YAML (experimental)
      --custom-resource-state-config-file string   Path to a Custom Resource State Metrics config file (experimental)
```

> To instruct the `kube-state-metrics` what metrics to capture, create the ConfigMap and mount it to a container. 

Reviewer 2: We can add  this doc as hyperlink https://github.com/kubernetes/kube-state-metrics/blob/main/docs/customresourcestate-metrics.md#configuration and also rephrase the statement `To instruct the kube-state-metrics`.
I am not sure what exactly to put here :(, but what do you think ?

> 1. Edit the [example `configmap.yaml` configuration file](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/percona/percona-everest-cli/main/data/crds/victoriametrics/kube-state-metrics/configmap.yaml) and specify the `<namespace>`. The Namespace must match the Namespace where you created the Secret. 

Reviewer 2: Configmap link is broken, needs to be fixed or this is not a public repo. We need to figure out a way for this.
```
Edit the [example `configmap.yaml` configuration file](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/percona/percona-everest-cli/main/data/crds/victoriametrics/kube-state-metrics/configmap.yaml) and specify the `<namespace>
```
This is not required users can use 
`kubectl apply -f <github-link> -n <namespace-name>`. For example `monitoring-system` namespace.

Author: I believe the link will be valid after your PR is merged. Not sure when it happens, though.

Reviewer 2: I don't know if everest-cli repo will be public, @spron-in How should we handle this.
I assume we also need a place to put helm values file in a github repo which won't be used by everest as of now.

2. Apply the configuration

    ```{.bash data-prompt="$" }

>     $ kubectl apply -f <path-to-configmap.yaml>

Reviewer 2: We can instruct users to use the direct link from github. Content which we put should be in a public repo.
```
kubectl apply -f <github-link> -n <namespace
```

    ```

    As a result, you have the `customresource-config-ksm` ConfigMap created. 

### Install the Victoria Metrics Operator Helm chart

1. Add the dependency repositories of [victoria-metrics-k8s-stack](https://github.com/VictoriaMetrics/helm-charts/blob/master/charts/victoria-metrics-k8s-stack) chart. 

    ```{.bash data-prompt="$" }
    $ helm repo add grafana https://grafana.github.io/helm-charts
    $ helm repo add prometheus-community https://prometheus-community.github.io/helm-charts
    ```

> 2. Update the repositories.

Reviewer 2: We can remove this, as we are updating repo in the next step. My mistake in adding it in the initial draft doc :P

    ```{.bash data-prompt="$" }
    $ helm repo update
    ```

3. Add the Victoria Metrics Operator repository.

    ```{.bash data-prompt="$" }
    $ helm repo add vm https://victoriametrics.github.io/helm-charts/
    $ helm repo update
    ```

> 4. Export default values of `victoria-metrics-k8s-stack` chart to file `values.yaml` file.

Reviewer 2: Only caveat is, the placeholders and default values file may change with new versions.
We need to check and keep updating this doc when there are new releases of helm charts are present.
We can also mention that this was taken from the chart of version X and asks the users to verify the path if different version of chart is used.

Author: What path?

    ```{.bash data-prompt="$" }
    $ helm show values vm/victoria-metrics-k8s-stack > values.yaml
    ```

5. Edit the `values.yaml` file and specify the following:

    * the IP address / hostname of the PMM server in the `externalVM.write.url` option

>     * specify the unique name or an ID of the Kubernetes cluster in the ``vmagent.spec.externalLabels.cluster` option. Ensure to set different values if you are sending metrics from multiple Kubernetes clusters to the same PMM Server.

Reviewer 2: The field is now renamed to `k8s_cluster_id`. Sorry for the late changes.

Author: Updated

    * set the `vmsingle.enabled` and `vmcluster.enabled` to false
    * set the `alertmanager.enabled`, `vmalert.enabled` to false

>     * set the `defaultDashboardsEnabled` to true

Reviewer 2: ```
set the `defaultDashboardsEnabled` to true
```
This is not relevant and we can skip it

    * specify the configuration for scraping Custom resources related to the Operator

    ```yaml title="values.yaml"
    ...
    externalVM:
      read:
        url: ""
        # bearerTokenSecret:
        #   name: dbaas-read-access-token
        #   key: bearerToken
      write:

>         url: "http://<PMM-server-IP>//victoriametrics/api/v1/write"

Reviewer 2: It could be http or https based on how the users have configured PMM. 
Better option would be to specify < PMM-SERVER-URL>/victoriametrics/api/v1/write

Author: Updated

        bearerTokenSecret:
          name: pmm-token-vmoperator
          key: api_key
    ....
    ....
    vmsingle:
       enabled: false
    .....

    vmcluster:
      enabled: false
    ....

    alertmanager:
      enabled: false
    ....

    vmalert:
      enabled: false
    .....

    vmagent:
      spec:
        selectAllByDefault: true
        image:
          tag: v1.91.3
        scrapeInterval: 25s
        externalLabels:
          cluster: <cluster-name>
    ....

    defaultDashboardsEnabled: true

    .....

    kube-state-metrics:
      enabled: true
      ## all values for kube-state-metrics helm chart can be specified here  
      ## Customizaing kube-state-metrics installation for scraping Custom resources related to Percona Operators
      metricLabelsAllowlist:

>       - pods=[app.kubernetes.io/component,app.kubernetes.io/instance,app.kubernetes.io/managed-by,app.kubernetes.io/name,app.kubernetes.io/part-of],persistentvolumeclaims=[app.kubernetes.io/component,app.kubernetes.io/instance,app.kubernetes.io/managed-by,app.kubernetes.io/name,app.kubernetes.io/part-of],jobs=[app.kubernetes.io/component,app.kubernetes.io/instance,app.kubernetes.io/managed-by,app.kubernetes.io/name,app.kubernetes.io/part-of]

Reviewer 2: Personally I feel this list is long and we should provide a github URL .

          - perconaxtradbclusters
          - perconaxtradbclusters/status
          - perconaxtradbclusterbackups
          - perconaxtradbclusterbackups/status
          - perconaxtradbclusterrestores
          - perconaxtradbclusterrestores/status
          verbs:
          - get
          - list
          - watch
        - apiGroups:
          - psmdb.percona.com
          resources:
          - perconaservermongodbs
          - perconaservermongodbs/status
          - perconaservermongodbbackups
          - perconaservermongodbbackups/status
          - perconaservermongodbrestores
          - perconaservermongodbrestores/status
          verbs:
          - get
          - list
          - watch
        - apiGroups:
          - pg.percona.com
          resources:
          - perconapgbackups/status
          - perconapgclusters/status
          - perconapgrestores/status
          - perconapgclusters
          - perconapgrestores
          - perconapgbackups
          - pgclusters
          - pgpolicies
          - pgreplicas
          - pgtasks
          verbs:
          - get
          - list
          - watch 

    .....

    coreDns:
      enabled: false
    ```

> 6. Install the Victoria Metrics Operator. The `vm-k8s` value in the following command is the Operator name. Replace the `<namespace>` placeholder with your value. The Namespace must be the same as the Namespace for the Secret and ConfigMap.

Reviewer 2: ```
The `vm-k8s` value in the following command is the Operator name
```
Kindly change it to 
```
The `vm-k8s` value in the following command is the Release Name
```
vm-k8s can be any name.

Author: Updated

        ```

    !!! note

        The API key is not rotated. 

2. Encode the API key with base64.

    === "in Linux" 

        ````{.bash data-prompt="$" }
        $ echo -n <API-key> | base64 --wrap=0
        ````

    === "in macOS"   
        ```{.bash data-prompt="$" }
        $ echo -n <API-key> | base64 
        ```

3. Create the YAML file for the [Kubernetes Secrets](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/) and specify the API key value within. In this example the Secrets file is named `pmm-api-vmoperator.yaml`.

    ```yaml title="pmm-api-vmoperator.yaml"
    apiVersion: v1
    data:
      api_key: <base-64-encoded-API-key>
    kind: Secret
    metadata:
      name: pmm-token-vmoperator
      #namespace: default
    type: Opaque
    ```

4. Create the Namespace where you want to set up monitoring. The following command creates the Namespace `monitoring-system`. You can use another name.
    
    ```{.bash data-prompt="$" }
    $ kubectl create namespace monitoring-system
    ```

> 5. Switch the context to the namespace you created. The subsequent commands will be executed in this Namespace.

Reviewer: No need for step No. 5, because we specify namespace in all steps. Switching context just changes the default namespace to `monitoring-system` to use it instead of `default` if nothing explicitly specified.

Author: Updated

# Monitor Kubernetes 

Monitoring the state of the database is crucial to timely identify and react to performance issues. [Percona Monitoring and Management (PMM) solution enables you to do just that](monitoring.md).

However, the database state also depends on the state of the Kubernetes cluster itself. Hence it’s important to have metrics that can depict the state of the Kubernetes cluster.

> This document describes how to set up monitoring of the Kubernetes cluster health. This setup has been tested with the [PMM server](https://docs.percona.com/percona-monitoring-and-management/details/architecture.html#pmm-server) as the centralized data storage and the Victoria Metrics operator as the statistics collector, though the steps should also apply to other monitoring applications. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document describes how to set up monitoring of the Kubernetes cluster health. This setup has been tested with the [PMM server](https://docs.percona.com/percona-monitoring-and-management/details/architecture.html#pmm-server) as the centralized data storage and the Victoria Metrics Operator as the statistics collector, though the steps should also apply to other monitoring applications. 
```

## Considerations

1. In this setup we use [Victoria Metrics kubernetes monitoring stack](https://github.com/VictoriaMetrics/helm-charts/tree/master/charts/victoria-metrics-k8s-stack) Helm chart. When customizing the chart's values, consider the following:

>     * Since data is stored in the PMM server, disable VMSingle and VMCluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Since data is stored in the PMM Server, disable VMSingle and VMCluster.
```

>     * Since data is stored in the PMM server, disable VMSingle and VMCluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Since we actually use PMM Server for monitoring and there is no need to actually store data in VictoriaMetrics, set `vmsngle.enabled` and `vmcuster.enabled` parameters of the Victoria Metrics Helm chart to `false`.
```

>     * The Prometheus node exporter is not installed by default since it requires  privileged containers that need to access the host file system. If you do need the node exporter, set the `prometheus-node-exporter.  enabled` flag in the `values.yaml` file to `true`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * The Prometheus node exporter is not installed by default since it requires  privileged containers with access to the host file system. If you would like to have metrics for Nodes, enable it by setting the `prometheus-node-exporter.enabled` parameters of the VictoriaMetrics Helm chart to `true`.
```

>     * Check all the role-based access control rules provided by the charts and modify them based on your requirements. 

Reviewer: How? We should put here some link to the VM doc, or a blog post... something like this.

> 2. This setup is used for a 1:1 mapping from Kubernetes cluster to the PMM server. If you wish to monitor more than one Kubernetes cluster in a single PMM server, you need to configure the dashboard to filter a specific Kubernetes cluster. You also need to properly relabel the metrics and from the backend. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. This setup is used for a 1:1 mapping from Kubernetes cluster to the PMM Server. If you wish to monitor more than one Kubernetes cluster in a single PMM Server, you need to configure the dashboard to filter a specific Kubernetes cluster. You also need to properly relabel the metrics and from the backend. 
```

Once again, it would be nice to have here some link to the external doc... send user to Grafana documentation about custom dashboards, something like this

## Pre-requisites

To set up monitoring of Kubernetes, you need the following:

> 1. PMM server up and running. You can run PMM Server as a Docker image, a virtual appliance, or on an AWS instance. Please refer to the [official PMM documentation](https://docs.percona.com/percona-monitoring-and-management/setting-up/server/index.html) for the installation instructions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. PMM Server up and running. You can run PMM Server as a Docker image, a virtual appliance, or on an AWS instance. Please refer to the [official PMM documentation](https://docs.percona.com/percona-monitoring-and-management/setting-up/server/index.html) for the installation instructions.
```

Reviewer: I think we should write "PMM Server" instead of "PMM server", because we use it as the official name of our software component, and not just "server part of PMM"

To access the PMM server resources and perform actions on the server, configure authentication.

1. Get the PMM API key. The key must have the role "Admin".

    === "From PMM UI" 

        [Generate the PMM API key](https://docs.percona.com/percona-monitoring-and-management/details/api.html#api-keys-and-authentication){.md-button} 

    === "From command line"

        You can query your PMM Server installation for the API
        Key using `curl` and `jq` utilities. Replace `<login>:<password>@<server_host>` placeholders with your real PMM Server login, password, and hostname in the following command:

        ``` {.bash data-prompt="$" }
        $ API_KEY=$(curl --insecure -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{"name":"operator", "role": "Admin"}' "https://<login>:<password>@<server_host>/graph/api/auth/keys" | jq .key)
        ```

    !!! note

        The API key is not rotated. 

2. Encode the API key with base64.

     === "in Linux" 

         ````{.bash data-prompt="$" }
         $ echo -n <API-key> | base64 --wrap=0
         ````

     === "in macOS"

         ```{.bash data-prompt="$" }
         $ echo -n <API-key> | base64 --wrap=0
         ```

> 3. Create the secrets file and specify the API key value within. In this example the secrets file is named `pmm-api-vmoperator.yaml`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Create the YAML file for the [Kubernetes Secrets](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/) and specify the API key value within. In this example the Secrets file is named `pmm-api-vmoperator.yaml`.
```

          - list
          - watch
        - apiGroups:
          - psmdb.percona.com
          resources:
          - perconaservermongodbs
          - perconaservermongodbs/status
          - perconaservermongodbbackups
          - perconaservermongodbbackups/status
          - perconaservermongodbrestores
          - perconaservermongodbrestores/status
          verbs:
          - get
          - list
          - watch
        - apiGroups:
          - pg.percona.com
          resources:
          - perconapgbackups/status
          - perconapgclusters/status
          - perconapgrestores/status
          - perconapgclusters
          - perconapgrestores
          - perconapgbackups
          - pgclusters
          - pgpolicies
          - pgreplicas
          - pgtasks
          verbs:
          - get
          - list
          - watch 

    .....

    coreDns:
      enabled: false
    ```

6. Install the Victoria Metrics Operator. The `vm-k8s` value in the following command is the operator name. Replace the `<namespace>` placeholder with your value.

    ```{.bash data-prompt="$" }
    $ helm install vm-k8s vm/victoria-metrics-k8s-stack  -f values.yaml -n <namespace>
    ```

> 7. Validate the successful installation by checking the pods. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Validate the successful installation by checking the Pods. 
```

Let's capitalize this term, following the official Kubernetes documentation

    ```{.bash data-prompt="$" }
    $ kubectl get pods -n <namespace>
    ```

    ??? example "Sample output" 

        ```{.text .no-copy}
        NAME                                                        READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
        vm-k8s-grafana-5f6bdb8c7c-d5bw5                             3/3     Running   0          90m
        vm-k8s-kube-state-metrics-57c5977d4f-6jtbj                  1/1     Running   0          81m
        vm-k8s-prometheus-node-exporter-kntfk                       1/1     Running   0          90m
        vm-k8s-prometheus-node-exporter-mjrvj                       1/1     Running   0          90m
        vm-k8s-prometheus-node-exporter-v98c8                       1/1     Running   0          90m
        vm-k8s-victoria-metrics-operator-6b7f4f786d-sctp8           1/1     Running   0          90m
        vmagent-vm-k8s-victoria-metrics-k8s-stack-fbc86c9db-rz8wk   2/2     Running   0          90m    
        ```
        

>         What pods are running depends on the configuration chosen in values used while installing `victoria-metrics-k8s-stack` chart.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        What Pods are running depends on the configuration chosen in values used while installing `victoria-metrics-k8s-stack` chart.
```
